“Look,” said rich dad, “taxes are just one small section on learning
how to have money work for you. Today, I just wanted to find out if
you still have the passion to learn about money. Most people don’t.
They want to go to school, learn a profession, have fun at their work,
and earn lots of money. One day they wake up with big money
problems, and then they can’t stop working. That’s the price of only
knowing how to work for money instead of studying how to have
money work for you. So do you still have the passion to learn?” asked
rich dad.
I nodded my head.
“Good,” said rich dad. “Now get back to work. This time, I will
pay you nothing.”
“What?” I asked in amazement.
“You heard me. Nothing. You will work the same three hours
every Saturday, but this time you will not be paid 10 cents per hour.
You said you wanted to learn to not work for money, so I’m not going
to pay you anything.”
I couldn’t believe what I was hearing.
“I’ve already had this conversation with Mike and he’s already
working, dusting and stacking canned goods for free. You’d better
hurry and get back there.”
“That’s not fair,” I shouted. “You’ve got to pay something!”
“You said you wanted to learn. If you don’t learn this now, you’ll
grow up to be like the two women and the older man sitting in my
living room, working for money and hoping I don’t fire them. Or like
your dad, earning lots of money only to be in debt up to his eyeballs,
hoping more money will solve the problem. If that’s what you want,
I’ll go back to our original deal of 10 cents an hour. Or you can do
what most adults do: Complain that there is not enough pay, quit,
and go looking for another job.”
“But what do I do?” I asked.
Rich dad tapped me on the head. “Use this,” he said. “If you use
it well, you will soon thank me for giving you an opportunity and
you will grow into a rich man.”
Rich Dad Poor Dad
27
I stood there, still not believing what a raw deal I was handed. I came
to ask for a raise, and somehow I was instead working for nothing.
Rich dad tapped me on the head again and said, “Use this. Now
get out of here and get back to work.”
Lesson #1: The Rich Don’t Work for Money
I didn’t tell my poor dad I wasn’t being paid. He wouldn’t have
understood, and I didn’t want to try to explain something I didn’t
understand myself.
For three more weeks, Mike and I worked three hours every
Saturday for nothing. The work didn’t bother me, and the routine
got easier, but it was the missed baseball games and not being able
to afford to buy a few comic books that got to me.
Rich dad stopped by at noon on the third week. We heard his
truck pull up in the parking lot and sputter when the engine was
turned off. He entered the store and greeted Mrs. Martin with a hug.
After finding out how things were going in the store, he reached into
the ice-cream freezer, pulled out two bars, paid for them, and signaled
to Mike and me.
“Let’s go for a walk, boys.”
We crossed the street, dodging a few cars, and walked across a
large grassy field where a few adults were playing softball. Sitting
down at a lone picnic table, he handed Mike and me the treats.
“How’s it going, boys?”
“Okay,” Mike said.
I nodded in agreement.
“Learn anything yet?” rich dad asked.
Mike and I looked at each other, shrugged our shoulders, and
shook our heads in unison.
Avoiding One of Life’s Biggest Traps
“Well, you boys had better start thinking. You’re staring at one of
life’s biggest lessons. If you learn it, you’ll enjoy a life of great freedom 
Chapter One: Lesson 1
28
and security. If you don’t, you’ll wind up like Mrs. Martin and most of
the people playing softball in this park. They work very hard for little
money, clinging to the illusion of job security and looking forward to a
three-week vacation each year and maybe a skimpy pension after fortyfive years of service. If that excites you, I’ll give you a raise to 25 cents
an hour.”
“But these are good hardworking people. Are you making fun of
them?” I demanded.
A smile came over rich dad’s face.
“Mrs. Martin is like a mother to me. I would never be that cruel.
I may sound unkind because I’m doing my best to point something out
to the two of you. I want to expand your point of view so you can see
something most people never have the benefit of seeing because their
vision is too narrow. Most people never see the trap they are in.”
Mike and I sat there, uncertain of his message. He sounded cruel,
yet we could sense he was trying to drive home a point.
With a smile, rich dad said, “Doesn’t that 25 cents an hour sound
good? Doesn’t it make your heart beat a little faster?”
I shook my head no, but it really did. Twenty-five cents an hour
would be big bucks to me.
“Okay, I’ll pay you a dollar an hour,” rich dad said, with a sly grin.
Now my heart started to race. My brain was screaming, “Take it.
Take it.” I could not believe what I was hearing. Still, I said nothing.
“Okay, two dollars an hour.”
My little brain and heart nearly exploded. After all, it was 1956
and being paid $2 an hour would have made me the richest kid in
the world. I couldn’t imagine earning that kind of money. I wanted to
say yes. I wanted the deal. I could picture a new bicycle, new baseball
glove, and the adoration of my friends when I flashed some cash.
On top of that, Jimmy and his rich friends could never call me poor
again. But somehow my mouth stayed shut.
The ice cream had melted and was running down my hand. Rich
dad was looking at two boys staring back at him, eyes wide open and
brains empty.